---
title: 'Kubernetes: Using Helm'
---

For installation to Kubernetes, a Helm chart is available in our charts repository. The source code of the chart(s) is available on [GitHub fivenet-app/charts](https://github.com/fivenet-app/charts).

## 0. Prequisites

This guide assumes you have a working Kubernetes cluster and a Helm client installed. If you haven't set up a Kubernetes cluster yet, please refer to the [Kubernetes installation guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/).
You can use any Kubernetes cluster, including local clusters like Minikube or KinD, or cloud providers like GKE, EKS, or AKS.

## 1. Add Helm Chart Repo

Add the FiveNet Helm chart repository to your Helm client:

```bash
helm repo add fivenet https://fivenet.app/charts
```

## 2. Get the Latest `values.yaml`

Retrieve the default `values.yaml` file for the Helm chart to start configuring your deployment:

```bash
helm show values fivenet/fivenet > values.yaml
```

## 3. Configure `values.yaml`

Edit the `values.yaml` file to suit your deployment needs. For details about the `.fivenet.config` section, refer to the [configuration reference page](../3.configuration/1.config-reference.md#must-set-config-options), specifically the **"Must Set Config Options"** section and reference list at the top, to create a working `config.yaml` for FiveNet.

## 4. Install or Upgrade FiveNet

Deploy or update FiveNet in your Kubernetes cluster using the configured `values.yaml` file:

```bash
helm upgrade --install fivenet fivenet/fivenet -f values.yaml
```

Ensure that FiveNet is externally reachable as configured in your `values.yaml` file.

## 5. Post-Installation Steps

After installation, follow the [post-installation steps](6.post-install-steps.md) to complete the setup.

### Troubleshooting

For common issues during Kubernetes or Helm installation, such as database-related errors, refer to the [Common Installation Issues](../4.configuration/common-installation-issues.md) page.
