---
title: After Install Steps
---

## 1. Creating the First Account Manually

To create your first account, follow these steps:

1. Open your MySQL management tool/UI/website (e.g., `mysql` CLI, [DBeaver](https://dbeaver.io/), [PHPMyAdmin](https://www.phpmyadmin.net/)) and connect to the database used by FiveNet/your gameserver, depending on if you are using [ESX compatibility mode](../configuration/esx-compat-mode).
2. Navigate to the `fivenet_accounts` table and create a new entry with the following values:

   | Field      | Value Description                                                                 |
   |------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
   | `enabled`  | Set to `1` to enable the account.                                                |
   | `license`  | Your in-game identifier/license without any prefix (e.g., `char*:`, `license:`, `steam:`, `discord:`). |
   | `reg_token`| A 6-digit registration token for account registration.                           |

   > **Note:** Leave all other fields as they are.

3. Open your FiveNet instance in your browser, navigate to the registration page, and use the registration token to create your account.
4. Once registered, log in to FiveNet. If the `license` value is correct, you should see any characters (`users` table) associated with the `license`/`identifier`.

## 2. Adding the FiveNet Plugin to Your Gameserver

To integrate FiveNet with your gameserver:

- Download the [FiveM Plugin code](https://github.com/fivenet-app/plugins/tree/main/fivem/fivenet) from GitHub.

::callout
**Important:**

- Read the `README.md` file of the plugin you install and follow the instructions to ensure optimal setup.
- Add event triggers to your ESX plugins as required. Not all events collected by FiveNet are available in the standard ESX plugin code.
::

For additional details, tips and info on the plugin setup, refer to the [plugin setup documentation](../plugin) to ensure proper integration and configuration.
