---
title: Installation Methods
---

Choose the installation path that fits your environment, whether you want managed hosting with FiveNet Cloud or a self-hosted deployment with Docker or Kubernetes.

::callout
---
color: secondary
icon: i-mdi-information
---
**Important**: Self-hosting FiveNet requires intermediate knowledge of Docker or Kubernetes. For professional support, simplified setup, or managed hosting, we recommend using [FiveNet Cloud](cloud).<br>
Please ensure you have sufficient experience with these technologies before attempting installation. Community-based support is available for installation and configuration.
::

## Self-hosted

::card-group
::card
---
title: Docker
icon: i-mdi-docker
to: /getting-started/installation/container-docker
---
Learn how to set up FiveNet using Docker and the Docker Compose plugin.
::
::card
---
title: Kubernetes
icon: i-mdi-kubernetes
to: /getting-started/installation/kubernetes-helm
---
Deploy FiveNet on Kubernetes using our Helm Chart.
::
::

## Cloud-hosted

For those who prefer a hassle-free experience, FiveNet Cloud offers a streamlined way to run FiveNet for your roleplay server. Learn more on the [Cloud info page](cloud).

::card
---
title: FiveNet Cloud
icon: i-mdi-cloud
to: /getting-started/installation/cloud
---
Get started with FiveNet Cloud for a fully managed solution, eliminating the need for manual setup and maintenance. Perfect for those who want to focus on their roleplay server without worrying about infrastructure.
::
