---
title: Requirements
---

## Must have Requirements

- MySQL database server
    - MySQL 5.7+ or MariaDB 10.0+ version or higher should be compatible.
    - Fulltext search must be available (most default installations have it available/installed).
    - This will be the same database that your FiveM gameserver uses. Make sure that your database table structure is following the [below structure](#database) (the structure is based on the most recent ESX version).
    - ESX "base" tables (e.g., `users`, `jobs`, see below tables list of which tables need to exist for FiveNet to work).
- NATS message queue server/cluster
    - With [JetStream](https://docs.nats.io/nats-concepts/jetstream) and memory storage enabled (at least 10-20MB available).
- Storage - Either some local storage (directory) or S3 bucket storage is supported.
    - The storage is currently used for avatars, faction logos and more.
    - In case of using an S3 bucket, you must at least have read and write access for objects.
- Domain/Subdomain
    - It must point to the server/reverse proxy that you run FiveNet on (in case of, e.g., Docker that should be your container reverse proxy, Kubernetes Helm installation the ingress controller).
    - A valid HTTPS certificate for your domain/subdomain.
        - In case you are using something like Cloudflare Tunnels, you don't need certificates as Cloudflare terminates HTTPS/SSL in front of the tunnel.
    - A reverse proxy that must terminate HTTPS/SSL before handing the traffic to the FiveNet server.

## Optional

- Tracing: For OpenTelemetry based tracing support.
  - Currently only Jaeger is supported as an exporter target.
