---
title: ESX Compatibility Mode
---

If you are using ESX and want to use your server's ESX tables directly, you can use the ESX Compatibility Mode option `database.esxCompat: true`.

You must ensure that the tables and columns are the same as the ones listed below.

::callout{color="warning" icon="i-mdi-warning-circle"}
You should preferably use the DBSync to be mostly independent of your gameserver database structure.
::

::callout{color="warning" icon="i-mdi-warning-circle"}
You must ensure that the **collation** of your database, tables and columns is the same!

A difference in collation between tables can occur, e.g., when the database server has been switched. The database server defines the "default collation" used unless otherwise specified.

If the collation is not the same across at least the tables listed below, FiveNet's database migrations have a very high likely hood of **failing** due to that.
::

### Tables

::callout{color="info" icon="i-mdi-info-slab-circle"}
The below database/table structure is only needed when wanting to use your server's ESX tables directly.

In case of using the dbsync, you can ignore these instructions.
::

#### `jobs` Table

- `name`
- `label`

#### `job_grades` Table

- `job_name`
- `grade`
- `label`

#### `licenses` Table

- `type`
- `label`

#### `owned_vehicles` Table

- `owner` - `varchar(64) NOT NULL`
- `plate`
- `type`
- `model` (Optional, can be overriden via `database.custom.columns.vehicles.model` config option)

#### `users` Table

- `id` - `int(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT`
- `identifier` - `varchar(64) NOT NULL`
- `group`
- `firstname`
- `lastname`
- `dateofbirth`
- `job`
- `job_grade`
- `sex`
- `height`
- `phone_number`
- `visum` (Optional, can be overriden via `database.custom.columns.user.visum` config option)
- `playtime` (Optional, can be overriden via `database.custom.columns.user.playtime` config option)

#### `user_licenses` Table

- `type`
- `owner` - `varchar(64) NOT NULL`

### Database/Table Collation

You must ensure that the **collation** of your database, tables and columns is the same!

A difference in collation between tables can occur, e.g., when the database server has been switched. The database server defines the "default collation" used unless otherwise specified. If the collation is not the same across at least the tables listed below, FiveNet's database migrations have a very high likely hood of **failing** due to that.

::callout
My recommendation for database, table and column collation is `utf8mb4_general_ci` and the charset `utf8bm4`.
::

To check the collation of your database tables, you can use the following SQL queries:

```sql
USE `__YOUR_DATABASE_NAME_HERE__`;
SHOW TABLE STATUS;
```

#### Changing the database, table, column Collation

I personally have used [How to easily convert utf8 tables to utf8mb4 in MySQL 5.5 - Database Administrators Stack Exchange](https://dba.stackexchange.com/a/104866), **but**, as pointed out by the comments, with `SET foreign_key_checks = 0;` before you would run the generated queries and `SET foreign_key_checks = 1;` after you ran the generated queries.

#### Creating Database User

These are sample queries to create a database user named `fivenet` with "full" access to the database (`database_name`).
You are expected to change the password in the first query and specify the right database name in the `GRANT` query second line.

```sql
CREATE USER 'fivenet'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON `database_name`.* TO 'fivenet'@'%';
```
