---
tittle: Installation Methods
---

## Self-hosted

- [Docker via `docker-compose`](/getting-started/installation/container-docker)
- [Kubernetes via Helm Chart](/getting-started/installation/kubernetes-helm)

## Hosted Version

For those who prefer a hassle-free experience, our hosted version of FiveNet offers a simple way to have FiveNet running for your roleplay server.

Checkout the [Hosted version info page](2.hosted.md).

### Features

- **Easy to Use**: Sign up and start immediately.
- **Maintenance-Free**: We handle software updates.
- **Secure and Scalable**: Focus on your work while we manage the infrastructure.

### Getting Started

Checkout the [Hosted version info page](2.hosted.md).

### Comparison

| Feature      | Self-Hosted    | Hosted Version    |
| ------------ | -------------- | ----------------- |
| Installation | Required       | None              |
| Updates      | Manual         | Automatic         |
| Support      | Community Only | Dedicated Support |

### FAQs

- **What happens to my data?** Due to how FiveNet stores data, your gameserver database needs to be made accessible to FiveNet. If you would ever want to migrate to a self-hosted instance you can easily do this as you would only need to request the "attachment data" (avatars, etc.)

- **Is there a free tier?** No, a free tier of FiveNet is currently not available.

- **How do I migrate from self-hosted to hosted?** There is no direct need to do any migrations. In the future you will be able to upload your existing "attachment data" to our fast cloud-based storage.

- **How do I migrate from hosted to self-hosted?** As the FiveNet data (e.g., citizens, documents) is stored in **your** database, you only need to request a copy of the "attachment data" for your self-hosted instance.

### Need Help?

[Contact @Galexrt on Discord](https://galexrt.moe/discord) for questions about the [hosted version](#faqs).
