---
title: Using Docker
---

## 1. Install Docker Engine and Docker Compose

You need Docker Engine, as the container runtime, and Docker Compose to easily run FiveNet using containers.

Please use one of the many guides available on the internet to install Docker Engine and Docker Compose on your server, e.g., <https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/>.

Depending on your server's operating system, make sure to start the Docker Daemon using `systemctl start docker` .

To check that Docker and Docker Compose is ready you can use the following commands:

```bash
docker version
docker-compose version
```

You can now continue to the next step of preparing the `docker-compose.yml` for your case.

## 2. Prepare `docker-compose.yml`

::callout
Container images are available from [GHCR.io fivenet-app/fivenet registry](https://github.com/fivenet-app/fivenet/pkgs/container/fivenet).
::

Checkout the [`docker-compose.yml` (click me)](https://github.com/fivenet-app/fivenet/blob/main/docker-compose.yaml) as a starting point for you.

If you already have a Docker NGINX Reverse Proxy or similar for exposing your container applications to the world, you can remove/comment out the `nginx-proxy` container in it.
For the Docker NGINX Reverse Proxy, you need to make sure to update the environment variables of each container to match the domain/subdomain name that you use.

::callout
To build the FiveNet container image yourself, you need to fulfill the [development requirements setup](/getting-started/requirements#development).
::

If you use the NATS server from the default `docker-compose.yaml` , the `nats.url` in your FiveNet `config.yaml` should look like this: `url: "nats://fivenet:fivenet_topsecret@localhost:4222"` .

## 2.1. Prepare FiveNet Config

::callout
---
color: emerald
icon: i-mdi-head-idea
to: https://github.com/fivenet-app/fivenet/blob/main/config.example.yaml
---
Make sure to start using the example config file (click here) and modify it as you need.
::

Checkout the [configuration reference page **"Must Set Config Options"** section and reference list](../configuration/config-reference#must-set-config-options) to create a working `config.yaml` for FiveNet.

## 3. Run FiveNet

Run the server, worker and discord containers via the `docker-compose.yaml` :

```js
docker-compose up -d
```

### 3.1. Recommendations

If you aren't using a reverse proxy to expose FiveNet, I would recommend using, e.g., [nginx-proxy/nginx-proxy](https://github.com/nginx-proxy/nginx-proxy), to easily and safely expose the FiveNet server (`/`) and the Iconify API container (`/api/icons`).

## 4. Post Installation Steps

Make sure to follow the [post installation steps](post-install-steps) now.
