---
title: Post-Installation Steps
---

Complete the initial account setup and connect your gameserver after installing FiveNet.

## 1. Create the First Account Manually

If no account exists yet, create the first account directly in the database:

1. Open your MySQL management tool or database UI, such as `mysql`, [DBeaver](https://dbeaver.io/), or [PHPMyAdmin](https://www.phpmyadmin.net/), and connect to the database used by FiveNet or your gameserver.
2. Navigate to the `fivenet_accounts` table and create a new entry with the following values:

   | Field | Value Description |
   | ----- | ----------------- |
   | `enabled` | Set to `1` to enable the account. |
   | `license`  | Your in-game identifier/license without any prefix (e.g., `char*:`, `license:`, `steam:`, `discord:`). |
   | `reg_token` | A 6-digit registration token for account registration. |
   | `groups` | A JSON string array, e.g., `["admin"]` (list of groups). |

   > **Note:** Leave all other fields as they are.

    **Example query:**

    ```sql
    INSERT INTO `fivenet_accounts` (`enabled`, `license`, `reg_token`, `groups`) VALUES (1, 'YOUR_LICENSE_HERE', '123456', '["admin"]');
    ```

3. Open your FiveNet instance in your browser, navigate to the registration page, and use the registration token to create your account.
4. Once registered, log in to FiveNet. If the `license` value is correct, you should see any characters (`users` table) associated with the `license`/`identifier`.

## 2. Install the FiveNet Plugin on Your Gameserver

To connect FiveNet to your gameserver:

- Download the [FiveM Plugin code](https://github.com/fivenet-app/plugins/tree/main/fivem/fivenet) from GitHub.
- Install and configure the plugin on your FiveM server.

::callout
**Important:**

- Read the `README.md` file of the plugin you install and follow the instructions to ensure optimal setup.
- Add event triggers to your ESX plugins as required. Not all events collected by FiveNet are available in the standard ESX plugin code.
::

For additional details and step-by-step setup guidance, refer to the [plugin installation documentation](../gameserver/1.fivem-plugin/1.installation.md).

## 3. Configure Your FiveNet

When logged in with a character selected, you must be able to enable superuser mode (controlled by config option `auth.superuserGroups` and `auth.superuserUsers`), navigate to your "FiveNet Settings" (`/settings/settings` URL path).

In there go over each tab and configure them to suit your servers' config, jobs and roleplay.

Some of the most important settings to configure here are:

1. "Jobs & Tracker" Tab
    - Make sure to select the correct enemployed job and grade.
2. "Website" Tab
    - Make sure to set the URLs to your gameservers' privacy policy and imprint pages.
